Updating the Rich Text Editor article in Editors Manual (#4900)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: umbraco-cms/tutorials/editors-manual/working-with-content/rich-text-editor.md

# Rich Text Editor

The Umbraco Rich Text Editor (RTE) is a field where you, as an editor, can be creative. You select how much you want to do yourself. You can work on text content, format the text, or leave it the way it is. If you want to do more, you can insert images, create tables, or create links to other pages/documents.

The functionality varies depending on how the editor is set up. Here, we describe the default editor with all the options enabled. Contact your system administrator for details regarding your editor.

## Editor Buttons

Below are the default editor buttons available. Your system administrator can determine which buttons are displayed in different templates. You could therefore have access to more or fewer buttons than those shown here.

> ![editorBar.jpg](images/editorBar-v11.png)

Reviewer: I'd suggest using a different "alt" text for this image.

### Remove Formatting

![removeFormat.jpg](images/removeFormat.jpg)

If you have formatted a paragraph or selection using the formatting buttons, you can remove a formatting rule:

1. Select the text and click the relevant formatting button to remove that formatting rule.
2. You can also use the **Remove Format** button from the toolbar. If you do not have this button please speak to your system administrator.

## Links

![linkButton.jpg](images/linkButton.jpg)

The **Insert/Edit Link** button is used to create links to internal pages, external pages, media files, email links, and anchors. The process for inserting a hyperlink differs depending on the type of hyperlink you wish to create:

### Link to a Page on another Website

1. Select the text that will form the hyperlink.
2. Click the **Insert/Edit Link** button to open the link properties slide-out menu.
3. In the **Link** field, enter the URL of the web page you wish to link to.
4. In the **Link Title** field, enter the text that will be shown as a pointer to the link. This is important information for everyone reading the website with different accessibility aids.

> 5. In the **Target** field, select the target window/frame to open the link in a new window or tab.

Reviewer: Start each bullet with the "action" word 💪 
Also, add the second sentence as a sub-item - just to keep the list more concise!

6. Click **Submit**.

![Link to a Page on another Website](images/Link-to-an-external-Page-v11.png)

### Link to a Page in Umbraco

1. Select the text that will form the hyperlink.
2. Click the **Insert/Edit Link** button to open the link properties slide-out menu.
3. Select a page from the **Link to page** field. This will then populate the **Link** and  **Link Title** fields automatically.

> 4. In the **Target** field, select the target window/frame to open the link in a new window or tab.

Reviewer: Start with the "action" word 💪

## Macros

In Umbraco, macros are small building blocks of functionality that can be dropped into an editor. Each macro encompasses a piece of functionality and provides an interface to modify the macro to your requirements. A macro can be anything from a contact form to an embedded media player. The advantage of macros is that it gives editors the ability to add complex elements to a page.

The macros available differ on each system. Kindly check with your system administrator to find out which macros are available to you and what they do. The process for adding and updating a macro is as follows:

### Adding a Macro to the Page

1. Place the cursor in the RTE where you want to insert your macro.
2. Click the **Insert Macro** button from the toolbar.
3. Select a macro to insert from the macros list.
4. Click **Submit**.

   The macro is displayed in the editor with a dotted border.

![Adding a Macro to the Page](images/Select-Macro-v11.png)

### Editing macros

You can edit values after a macro has been added to the RTE:

1. Select the macro in the RTE.
2. Click the **Insert Macro** button from the toolbar.

> 3. This will open the configuration menu where you can edit any values previously added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will open the configuration menu where you can edit any values previously added.
```

### Removing macros

To remove a macro:

1. Select the macro in the RTE.
2. Press the **Delete** or **Backspace** button on your keyboard.

## Tables

Tables are used to format information in a grid-based structure. When you insert a table, you select how many rows and columns the table should comprise of. Additionally, you can fill in some optional formatting properties. These values can be changed later, so it is not important to know exactly what your table will look like when you create it.

![Inserting a Table](images/Insert-a-table-v11.png)

### Editing an Existing Table

To edit the table after creating it:

> 1. Click on the table.
> 2. A pop-up appears with different table properties and options.
> 3. Alternatively, you can click on the **Table** button in the RTE toolbar.

Reviewer: This list contains only a single action 🙈 
Does it make sense to convert it back again?

```suggestion
Select the table to open a pop-up with different table properties and options. Alternatively, you can click on the **Table** button in the RTE toolbar.
```
